docs/examples/index.rst, before:

========
Overview
========

Here, we present a (growing) series of working examples of how to use the trEPR package to perform both, day-to-day routine tasks in a laboratory working with tr-EPR spectroscopy as well as more complex processing and analysis tasks.

For each of the examples, a full recipe is provided ready to be copied and pasted and run on your local computer.

.. note::

    There are plans to provide a series of real example data as well, to make it easy to get first-hand experience with the trepr package.


Prerequisites
=============

To be able to run the example recipes locally, you need to have a working installation of the trepr package and its dependencies. Have a look at the :doc:`installation instructions <../installing>` for details.

Furthermore, to be able to run ("cook") the recipes and get ("serve") the results, you need to have access to a command line, as running recipes (still) is command-line based using the command :samp:`serve {recipe.yaml}`.

For some recipes, you will need to have a working LaTeX installation in case you would like to get your reports not only created, but compiled into a well-formatted PDF document as well.

Commit message:

Start adding example section with all the recipes.
Description of the individual recipes is still missing, though.

docs/examples/index.rst, after:

========
Overview
========

Here, we present a (growing) series of working examples of how to use the trEPR package to perform both, day-to-day routine tasks in a laboratory working with tr-EPR spectroscopy as well as more complex processing and analysis tasks.

For each of the examples, a full recipe is provided ready to be copied and pasted and run on your local computer.

.. note::

    There are plans to provide a series of real example data as well, to make it easy to get first-hand experience with the trepr package.


For a brief introduction into recipe-driven data analysis, see the :doc:`usecases` section. A more thorough introduction with many more examples can be found in the `documentation of the underlying ASpecD framework <https://docs.aspecd.de/examples/>`_. The most detailed documentation of recipe-driven data analysis -- besides having a look at the examples of the individual tasks to be performed -- is still the `API documentation of the ASpecD tasks module <https://docs.aspecd.de/api/aspecd.tasks.html>`_.


Prerequisites
=============

To be able to run the example recipes locally, you need to have a working installation of the trepr package and its dependencies. Have a look at the :doc:`installation instructions <../installing>` for details.

Furthermore, to be able to run ("cook") the recipes and get ("serve") the results, you need to have access to a command line, as running recipes (still) is command-line based using the command :samp:`serve {recipe.yaml}`.

For some recipes, you will need to have a working LaTeX installation in case you would like to get your reports not only created, but compiled into a well-formatted PDF document as well.
